# MX1104 / MX1105

During a site visit we may deploy current transducers, air velocity sensors, line pressure sensors, and intake sensors to characterize energy systems in the facility. These sensors outputs are connected to a datalogger to record the readings over time. Deploying these sensors in an accurate repeatable way ensures we receive quality data to base our recommendations on. It is also critical that safety protocol is followed. This page will guide you through safe and quality deployment of analog sensors and data loggers.

## Setup

Start by opening the HOBOconnect app on your mobile device and navigate to the devices tab at the bottom of the screen.

On the back, find the serial number under the ONSET MX1104 label. 

Ensure the data logger is on by tapping the buttons on its front face. The device should appear in the app

Select the device with the matching serial number. A connection should be established and your mobile device should greet you with a new menu.

!!! success

    Press the "beep logger" button to confirm a successful connection. The logger should briefly beep.


Once a successful connection has been confirmed, tap the *Customize Configuration & Start* menu to set up the logger for use. Using the guide below, set up the logger.

#### Logger Name & Group

| Setting | Value |
|---|---|
| Name | ITAC ID |
| Group | None |

The ITAC I.D. is a five-digit number on the back of the logger.

#### Logger Settings

The following logger settings are common to all analog sensors:

| Setting | Value |
|---|---|
| Logging Interval | 1 second |
| Start logging | On save |
| Stop logging | Stop when memory fills |
| Pause Options | (blank) |
| Show LCD | On |
| Bluetooth Always On | On |
| Capture Location Data | Off |
|Update Saved Configuration | On |

Inside the Logging Mode sub-tab, the following settings should be set:

| Setting | Value |
|---|---|
| Select Logging Mode | Fixed Logging Mode |
| Statistics | Off |

The remaining settings are specific to each sensor.

<!-- TODO: fill out the table -->

=== "Current Transducer"

=== "Air Velocity"

=== "Line Pressure"

=== "Intake Temperature"



#### *Analog Sensor Selection* - name may vary

<!-- TODO: fill out table -->

=== "Current Transducer"

=== "Air Velocity"

=== "Line Pressure"

=== "Intake Temperature"

#### Temperature

| Setting | Value |
|---|---|
| Sensor / channel name | *(blank)* |

#### RH

| Setting | Value |
|---|---|
| Sensor / channel name | *(blank)* |

#### Light

| Setting | Value |
|---|---|
| Sensor / channel name | *(blank)* |

#### Alarm Settings

| Setting | Value |
|---|---|
| Low | Off |
| High | Off |

#### LI-COR Cloud Connection

| Setting | Value |
|---|---|
| LI-COR Cloud Connection | Off |


## Deployment

After updating the logger settings, press the *Start* button to start logging and return to the main menu.

In the menu, press *View Live Data*. Confirm readings appear and the data is reasonable (within bounds on nameplate).

Photograph the ITAC I.D. on both the sensor and logger now, before mounting. It is on the back of the logger and will be hidden once mounted.

<!-- TODO: make a tabbed table explaining how to deploy each sensor -->
<!-- perhaps include example pictures -->

This logger is magnetic; mount near the sensor and ensure any loose cables are away from moving parts.

Photograph the mounted sensor, logger, and the surroundings of its new home. Include a recognizable landmark (door, equipment tag, sign) visible across the photos so someone else can find the logger.

### Checkout

!!! warning

    Make sure to check out all data loggers and sensors in Airtable before leaving the site. We need to be able to tell the customer where to find them.

In the ITAC Airtable, navigate to the *Assessment Data* tab and locate the facility that the logger has been left at. Locate the *Data Logger* row and press the *New Checkout* button. Select all relevant ITAC I.D.s from the *Asset* dropdown menu. Provide a description of the location in the room where the sensors and logger are placed. Upload all relevant images of the sensors,logger, and the surrounding area. Press *Create* to submit.

## Data Extraction

After some time at the facility, the sensors and data logger will be returned to ITAC for processing. To extract the data from the logger, reconnect the device to the *HOBOconnect* app. In the main menu, press *Download Data*, then *Export and Share*, and save the .xlsx file to the *sensor data* folder inside the correct *current assessments* folder in the ITAC OneDrive.

### Returning logger

After extracting the data, the sensors and data logger must be marked as returned in Airtable before being returned to the Packout (the equipment staging area). To do this, navigate to the *Assessment Data* tab and locate the facility that the logger was left at. Locate the *Data Logger* row and press the *New Return* button. Select all relevant ITAC I.D.s from the *Asset* dropdown menu. If the sensors and/or logger seems damaged, add a description to the notes section. Press *Create* to submit.
